---
title: "Set up Perl"
description: "Perl is an open programming language used for text processing, such as processing tables generated by other statistical softwares."
keywords: "perl, installation, programming, language, configuration"
#weight: 7
#date: 2021-01-06T22:01:14+05:30
draft: false
aliases:
  - /get/perl
  - /install/perl
---

## Installing Perl

Perl is an open programming language frequently used by engineers. We use Perl for text processing, such as processing tables generated by other statistical softwares.

### Mac and Linux

Perl is already installed on Mac and Linux OS.

### Windows

[Download Perl](https://www.perl.org/get.html) for Windows OS.

For Windows users to be able to use Perl from the command prompt, follow the steps below.

{{% warning %}}
**Making Perl available via the PATH settings on Windows**

We need to update our PATH settings; these settings are a set of directories that Windows uses to "look up" software to startup.

- Right-click on Computer.
- Go to "Properties" and select the tab "Advanced System settings".
- Choose "Environment Variables" and select `Path` from the list of system variables.
- Choose `Edit`.
	- **Windows 7 and 8 machines:**
		If you chose the default installation directory, copy and paste the following string without spaces at the start or end:

       `;c:\Program Files (x86)\Perl`

	- **Windows 10 machines:**
		- Click `New` and paste the following string:

       `c:\Program Files (x86)\Perl`

		- Click on `OK` as often as needed.
{{% /warning %}}

## Verifying installation

To verify that Perl has been correctly installed and configured via your PATH settings,
open a **new** terminal interface and enter:

```bash
perl -v
```

followed by hitting the `Return` key. Perl is successfully installed if you can see the version of Perl in the command line.
